These are frequently asked question in Nordea.

How can I block a lost/stolen card?The easiest way to block your card is to do it in Nordea Mobile or Netbank. You can block the use of your card temporarily or permanently. If you cancel your card permanently, you will automatically receive a new replacement card within 1–2 weeks.In Nordea Mobile, you can block your card by selecting the card and tapping > Security > Block the card. In Nordea Netbank, select the card and then ‘Blocking’. You can also block your card by calling the Blocking Service, tel. +358 20 333Opens new window (24/7).Block your card
What should I do if I have lost my card?If your card is lost or your card details have fallen into the wrong hands, you should block your card immediately in Nordea Mobile or Netbank. You can also block your card by calling the Blocking Service, tel. +358 20 333Opens new window (24/7).In Nordea Mobile, you can block your card by selecting the card and tapping > Security > Block the card. In Nordea Netbank, select the card and then ‘Blocking’. If you think you can still find your card, you can set a temporary block on the card.Block your card permanently
When and how do I dispute a card transaction? If you don’t recognise a purchase made with your card, contact the seller first. If you are unable to contact them or resolve the issue with them, block your card in Netbank or Nordea Mobile or call the Blocking Service, tel. +358 20 333Opens new window (24/7).Report the transactions you don’t recognise to Nordea by filling in the card complaint form. Please note that you can only file a complaint about finalised transactions and not authorisation holds.See the instructions for disputing card transactionsOpen in a new window. Here you will also find the cardholder dispute form and instructions for submitting the form.Note! You can report transactions made with credit cards issued by Nordea (card numbers starting with 522) in Nets’ online serviceOpens new window. 
My card isn’t working, what should I do?There may be various reasons why your card isn’t working, but the problem can often be fixed quickly by editing your card settings. Read more on our page If your card is not workingOpen in a new window where we have compiled the most typical situations in which your card might not be working and instructions on how to fix it.
I have forgotten my PIN. Where can I check it?You can view your PIN easily and free of charge in Nordea Mobile or Netbank. 
In Nordea Mobile, you can check your PIN by selecting the card and tapping PIN and Security > View PIN. In Nordea Netbank, select the card and then ‘View PIN’.Check your PIN
How can I make changes to the security limits, usage area and online usage of my card?You can change your card’s security settings in Nordea Mobile or Netbank.
In Nordea Mobile, select the card and then ‘Settings’. In Nordea Netbank, select the card and then ‘Edit’ under your card details.Edit security settings
How do I renew my card when it’s about to expire?Expiring cards will be renewed automatically. You will be able to use your card until the end of the last month of validity stated on the front of your card. You will receive a new card by post at least two weeks before your old card expires. Please check if you have already received a new card to your home address. 
How do I cancel my card?If you want to cancel your card, please contact Nordea Customer Service via chat or by phone. We recommend that all our customers have two cards. This way you are covered if one of them is damaged or lost. 

I have ordered a new card. How will I get it?We will deliver your card primarily to your home address in Finland. You will receive the card within about one week and a half from the card order. There is no delivery charge.
Alternatively, you can order express delivery for your card, which will be sent to your home address in Finland. You can expect to receive your card within about one week. An express delivery order is subject to a fee stated in the tariff and you can place it through Nordea Customer Service.Further information on card deliveries to a foreign address, for example, is available from Nordea Customer Service.
How do I check my credit card transactions?You can view your credit card transactions and balance in the following services: Nordea Mobile and Nordea Netbank, the invoice and e-invoice archives as well as Nordea Finance’s OmaLuotto service to which you can log in using the online banking codes of other Finnish banks. Your credit card invoice serves as your account statement.To view your credit card transactions in Nordea Mobile, select your card on the front page. Depending on the card type, you will be able to see your transactions for the past 1–3 months. Please note that the name of the seller under a card transaction may be different from the name of the creditor on your invoice.
What does the 30-day interest-free payment period mean in credit cards?You get an interest-free payment period of 30 days on average for purchases you pay with your credit card. You can pay off your credit balance in full whenever you like or repay it in monthly instalments. After the interest-free payment period, you will pay interest on the remaining balance as determined in the card terms and conditions.
Example: buying a vacuum cleanerThe due date of the credit card invoice is the 15th of each month and the invoicing period is from 25 March to 26 April. We recommend that you choose the date on which you receive regular income as the due date to make it easy for you to pay the invoice when you have money available. 1 April You buy a vacuum cleaner.15 April Due date on the credit card invoice, on which you pay the invoice for the previous invoicing period (March).26 April New invoicing period starts. Any purchases made after this date will be invoiced in June.15 May Due date for purchases made in April, including the vacuum cleaner in this case.If you had bought the vacuum cleaner on 26 April, you would still pay it on 15 May. If you had bought the vacuum cleaner on 27 April, the due date would be 15 June instead.
How can I change the due date and instalment percentage of my credit card invoice?You can check and change the due date of your credit card invoice, change your instalment percentage and select instalment-free months in Nordea Mobile or Netbank:In Nordea Mobile: select the card you want to apply changes to, then select Edit credit.
In Nordea Netbank: go to Finances, then Cards. Select the card you want to apply changes to, and under the Card details section, click Edit credit.If you want to change the due date or instalment percentage on an invoice that has already been created, please call us or contact us via chat. The changes are subject to a fee set in our tariff. See your credit card invoice to check the invoicing period, monthly transactions and payment details. If you have opted for e-invoicing, itemised invoices are available in Nordea Netbank and Nordea Mobile.

What changes can I make independently to my card invoices?You can check and change the due date of your credit card invoice, change your instalment percentage and select instalment-free months in Nordea Mobile or Netbank:In Nordea Mobile: select the card you want to apply changes to, then select Edit credit.In Nordea Netbank: go to Finances, then Cards. Select the card you want to apply changes to, and under the Card details section, click Edit credit.If you want to change the due date or instalment percentage on an invoice that has already been created, please call us or contact us via chat. The changes are subject to a fee set in our tariff.See your credit card invoice to check the invoicing period, monthly transactions and payment details. If you have opted for e-invoicing, itemised invoices are available in Nordea Netbank and Nordea Mobile. 
How do I repay my credit card debt in Nordea Mobile or Nordea Netbank with the amount I want?You can make extra instalments or pay off your debt whenever you want. You can also increase the total on your credit card invoice. Here are more specific instructions for different cards.Repayments of credit on Nordea cards are easy to make in Nordea Mobile (select your card, tap Pay and transfer and Continue) or Netbank (select your card, click Pay back and Confirm payment). You only need to enter the repayment amount – the other details of the payment will be automatically added.If necessary, you can check the end balance of credit cards with a number starting with 522 by calling Nets’ Nordea Card customer service at (09) 6964 6011Opens new window (Mon–Fri 8.00–20.00).
How do I apply for a home loan?You can apply for a home loan by filling in an application online. If you are applying for a joint loan, both applicants have to confirm the application separately with their personal access codes.Once we have processed your application, you will get a home loan offer from us, which also serves as a loan commitment. Our commitment to fund your home loan is valid for six months, but the offered price is only valid for one month.With the promise of a loan in hand, you can make an offer on a new home right away. A loan commitment from us will speed up the final sale and give you an advantage if you are bidding against other homebuyers.You are not obliged to take out a loan from Nordea if you submit a loan application and get a loan commitment from us.Read more about our loan commitmentOpen in a new window
Do I need to have savings of my own when applying for a home loan?If you are a first-time home buyer, you need to have saved at least 5% of the cost of the home you’d like to buy. Other buyers need to have saved 10% of the cost of the home.The maximum home loan amount you may be granted is determined by a loan cap set by the Finnish authorities. For a first-time home buyer, it may be no more than 95% of the value of the collateral provided for the loan and for other buyers no more than 90%.The standard collateral value of the home is 75% of the purchase price. This means that if the loan amount exceeds 75% of the value of the home, you need to provide additional collateral or have more savings. If you don’t have enough savings or additional collateral, you can purchase an OwnGuaranteeOpen in a new window from Nordea.Read more about collateralOpen in a new window for a home loan.
How can I make changes to my current home loan?You can make changes to your loan with a separate application. You can apply to change: the payment daythe monthly paymentthe repayment methodthe servicing account or the reference rate. You can also request the FlexiPayment feature or an installment-free period for your loan. You can apply for a change in Nordea Mobile by selecting Loans on the Overview tab, then selecting your home loan, followed by Apply for changes. In Netbank you can apply for a change by going to go to Finances, then Loans,  then select your home loan and click on ‘Apply for a change’. Apply for a change to your loan
How can my co-applicant confirm a home loan application?The co-applicant can confirm your home loan application using this online form.
How can I apply for a loan for unexpected expenses or larger purchases, such as home furnishing, refurbishment or travelling?FlexiCredit is an easy way to realise your dreams or finance your purchases. You can borrow between 2,000 and 50,000 euros and apply for FlexiCredit easily online. 
Secured consumer credit, in turn, is a way to finance the larger purchases in life. It can be a solution for you when you need to borrow more than 15,000 euros and you have collateral to back the loan. You can apply for a secured loan in the Nordea Netbank and Nordea Mobile.
Try our loan helperOpen in a new window and explore your options.
How long does it take to process my loan application?We process loan applications in the order we receive them. The processing times for home loans and secured consumer loans is generally 3 banking days. We will contact you once we have processed your application. In most cases, you will be given a decision on your FlexiCredit application instantly, but sometimes it may take a few days at the most. If granted, the FlexiCredit will be paid to your account immediately after our decision (Mon–Sun 7.00–22.30) and the credit agreement will be sent to you in Nordea Mobile and Netbank. You can find it in your documents by going to Profile > Documents > Sign agreements and documents > Open documents for signing. If we need additional information, we will contact you. If you wish to consolidate loans or transfer loans to Nordea, or if there is more than one debtor in the loan, we will always call you before giving you a loan decision.  If we are unable to grant the loan, we will notify you of our decision with a message in Nordea Mobile and Netbank. You can find the message under the Help tab. 
Am I eligible for a loan?To be eligible for a loan, you need to have sufficient regular income to cover your loan repayments, a good repayment history from previous loans and a clean credit record. In general, regular income includes salary and pension income.To be eligible for secured consumer credit, you also need to mainly bank with us and have collateral to back the loan.
We will make the credit decision based on your application, taking into account all the information you have provided. We use this information to make an overall assessment of your eligibility.  
How can I make changes to my FlexiCredit, like taking a payment holiday or repaying my loan in full?If you have FlexiCredit, you can make changes to your loan in Nordea Mobile under Overview -> Loans. Open the details of your FlexiCredit and select ‘Apply for changes’. You can edit your FlexiCredit settings, including the instalment-free months, payment date and instalment percentage. If you want to repay some extra or pay off your loan in full, you can do this using the account number and reference number on your previous invoices. 
Please note that the instalment-free months cannot be consecutive months. The minimum monthly instalment is 2%. Please make sure you have updated your Nordea Mobile app to the latest version to enjoy all the new features. The changes are free of charge except if you want to reduce your instalment percentage, which is subject to the fee stated in our tariff.
How can I increase my consumer credit amount?Here’s how you can increase the amount of your FlexiCredit:
In Nordea Netbank, go to Loans > Apply for FlexiCredit > Raise your credit amount.In Nordea Mobile, go to Overview > Services > Loans > FlexiCredit > Apply for FlexiCredit > Increase existing FlexiCredit.Alternatively, you can contact our Customer Service.Apply for an increase to your FlexiCreditYou must submit a new application in Nordea Netbank or Nordea Mobile every time you want to increase your secured consumer credit.
How can I repay my outstanding consumer credit in full?If you have outstanding FlexiCredit, you can repay it in full or partially using the reference number and account number on your latest invoice. If you choose to repay your outstanding loan in full, you will receive one final invoice including the remaining interest and fees to be paid. If you have outstanding secured consumer credit, you can repay it in full by calling us on 0200 70 000Opens new window or contacting us via chat.
What is the difference between FlexiPayment and an instalment-free period?FlexiPayment is a free-of-charge feature included in Nordea’s loans which allows you to reduce the amount of your loan instalment or skip it entirely (you still have to pay interest and fees, though). For example, you can halve the instalment, in which case you will continue to repay your loan, or alternatively pay only interest and fees.An instalment-free period is a one-off change to your agreed loan repayment schedule. You will have to agree with us on the duration of an instalment-free period, during which you will only pay interest and fees. The amount of your loan will not be reduced during an instalment-free period. Usually the instalments you leave unpaid will be postponed until the future, extending your loan period.
How do I apply for FlexiPayment? How can my co-applicant confirm the application?You can add FlexiPayment to your home loan by sending us an application through Nordea Mobile or Netbank. 
The FlexiPayment feature will become valid as of the next loan repayment. However, please apply for the change well in advance of the due date on your next home loan payment.If you share your loan with someone else, we will send the second borrower an SMS informing them that they need to confirm the application to change the loan repayment schedule. The second borrower can confirm the FlexiPayment application on the www.nordea.fi/housingloan page by clicking on ‘Housing loan modification application - Apply or confirm ’ and verifying their identity with the Nordea ID app, the code calculator or another bank’s online credentials. The application can also be confirmed in Nordea Netbank, under the ‘Apply for a change’ link. Once the application has been confirmed, it will be sent to Nordea for processing.Apply to add FlexiPayment to your home loan
I already have FlexiPayment. Can I also obtain an instalment-free period?If your loan has the FlexiPayment feature, then it is the primary and easiest way of obtaining flexibility for your loan repayments. If you still would like to apply for an instalment-free period (e.g. if you have used up the FlexiPayment feature), it is possible to do so and your application will be processed based on your specific case.

How long and how much can I use FlexiPayment?You can use FlexiPayment at any time during your loan period. The amount of the FlexiPayment available, however, will decrease every time you skip instalments. Here’s how you can check the amount of your FlexiPayment in Nordea Mobile: go to the Overview tab and tap Loans, then select the loan you want to check to open its details. In Nordea Netbank, you can find this information by selecting the loan you want to check from the Overview page. In the loan details, you will see the amount of FlexiPayment that is still available for this loan.FlexiPayment allows you to pay only a part of your instalment or to skip instalments entirely, although you must still pay interest and fees. FlexiPayment usually amounts to 5–10% of your total loan amount, so when used as a repayment holiday, it will last from one to two years.
What is a student loan?Student loans are state-guaranteed loans. If Kela grants you a loan guarantee, you can apply for the loan from the bank of your choice. The student loan should be paid back according to the agreed repayment schedule, which begins 1,5–2 years after graduation.
How big a student loan can I get?The amount of your student loan depends on how old you are and where you study. The loan guarantee covers between 300 and 800 euros per month.You can see the size of your student loan from the student financial aid decision you received from Kela.
When will the student loan be paid in my account?Most students can draw down their student loan in two instalments during the academic year.In the autumn term, the earliest possible drawdown date is 1st of August, and in the spring term, it’s 1st of January.In certain exceptional cases, you can draw down your student loan in one instalment for the entire academic year.
How do I apply for a state guarantee for my student loan?You will need to apply for the state guarantee from Kela. If you are a university student entitled to a study grant, you will receive a decision on the state guarantee for your student loan automatically.
If you are studying in a secondary school or a vocational school, you should apply for the state guarantee at the same time as you apply for a study grant and the housing supplement. And you should apply for the state guarantee for your entire period of study on one application. After Kela has granted you the state guarantee, you can apply for the student loan from the bank of your choice.
Do I need additional collateral for a student loan?Since the state guarantees the student loan in full, you won’t need any other collateral for the loan.The state guarantee is valid for a maximum of 30 years from the first time you draw down your student loan.
Can I take a payment holiday with a student loan?Yes, you can. You can apply for an instalment-free period for your student loan or change the amount and due date of your repayment, the management account, the repayment method and the reference rate. Go to the applicationOpens new window. Any changes are subject to a fee in accordance with our tariffOpen in a new window and it will be charged in connection with the next repayment of the loan.
Will I need to repay my entire student loan in a single payment?No, you won’t need to repay your entire student loan in a single payment. Instead, you will agree on a repayment schedule together with us.
What does repaying a student loan mean?The repayment of a student loan begins when you no longer receive student financial aid. A student loan payment means the amount you pay each month to Nordea. The monthly payment includes the instalment (which amortises the student loan principal), interest and fees.
Repayment of student loan: How will I start to repay my student loan?Before you start your student loan repayments, we will send you a proposal for a repayment schedule in a message to Nordea Mobile and Netbank.
If you want to make changes to the proposed schedule, you can contact Nordea Customer Service. If you accept the proposed schedule, you don’t need to do anything.
Can I raise my monthly student loan amount?The monthly student loan amount stated in Kela’s student financial aid decision cannot be raised. However, if you switch to another educational institution or change your country of study and are therefore entitled to a bigger student loan, you can apply for an adjustment to Kela’s student financial aid decision. Your student loan amount is stated in the student financial aid decision and it may be between 300 and 650 euros a month, or up to 800 euros a month if you’re studying abroad. The size of your student loan depends on your age and educational institution and whether you study in Finland or abroad. Your student loan is guaranteed by Kela, and it cannot grant a loan guarantee higher than the maximum amount.

What is a partial student loan drawdown agreement?A partial drawdown agreement means that the student loan won’t be transferred to your account automatically on the first possible drawdown date. You can submit a drawdown request using the student loan application when you want to transfer some of the loan to your account. 
You can make a partial drawdown when you have outstanding loan balance and wish to have a part of your loan amount transferred to your account. The first partial drawdown is free of charge. Subsequent drawdowns are subject to an arrangement fee or a raising fee (10,00 €) as well as a partial drawdown fee (10,00 €).
What is a student loan drawdown agreement?If you make a drawdown agreement, we will transfer the student loan amount to your account automatically on the first possible drawdown date in accordance with Kela’s guarantee decision. The loan will be transferred to your account on the payment dates mentioned in the guarantee decision. You can check the payment dates on Kela’s website or from the state guarantee decision. No other costs will be charged besides an arrangement fee or a raising fee.
What does drawing down a student loan mean and how do I obtain the granted student loan amount to my account?Drawing down a student loan means that the loan will be transferred to your account. There are two options for drawing down a student loan:You can conclude a drawdown agreement with the bank, in which case the loan amounts will be automatically transferred to your account.Alternatively, you can conclude a partial drawdown agreement, in which case you must make a drawdown request on a student loan application form every time you wish to have a part of your loan amount transferred to your account.
How to apply for a student loanStart by applying for a state guarantee from Kela.After this, apply for a student loan either on an application form provided at Nordea.fi or in Nordea Netbank or Nordea Mobile.
How do I activate the Nordea ID app on a new phone or tablet? If you have activated the Nordea ID app on your previous device, you can use it to activate the Nordea ID app on your new device. Find the Nordea ID app in your app store and install it on your new device. Make sure both your new and previous devices are connected to the internet. Open Nordea ID on your new mobile device, tap “Let’s start” and follow the instructions. Select “Activate on this device” as the authentication method. In the app on your other device, select “Activate in another device”. Follow the instructions in the app and activate Nordea ID using the QR code. Go to the instructions for activating the appOpen in a new window.
Alternatively, you can use your online banking codes from another Finnish bank or your mobile ID to activate Nordea ID. To do this, install the app on your new device and begin the set up process. Select “Other bank’s credentials” as the authentication method and follow the instructions in the app. 
I have the activation code and the temporary PIN. How do I activate the Nordea ID app?Start the activation by downloading the Nordea ID app from your phone’s or tablet’s app store. 
Open the Nordea ID app and tap “Let’s start”. Enter a user name in the app. You can use your first name, for example. Follow the steps in the app. Select “Nordea Suomi” as the country, then your preferred language and “Nordea personal banking customer” as your customer type. Next, select the authentication method “Activation code” and “Yes. I have both the activation code and the temporary PIN”. Enter the 10-digit activation code and the temporary PIN in the app. Finally, create a personal PIN which only you know. The app is now ready for use.

 How do I activate the Nordea ID app if I only have a credit card with Nordea?  If you only have a credit card with us, you’ll need online banking codes from another Finnish bank or a mobile ID to activate the Nordea ID app. Find the app in your app store and install it. Open the app on your device and begin the setup process. First select “Nordea Suomi” and the language of your choice. Then select “I only have a credit card through Nordea” and follow the instructions in the app.

How do I activate the Nordea ID app if I can’t verify my identity?If you have no means of verifying your identity, you can order an activation code and temporary PIN from us to set up the Nordea ID app. You’ll receive the activation code in a text message and the temporary PIN by post in 3–5 weekdays. You’ll need both to activate the app. You can order the activation code and temporary PIN in two ways.
1) Order in the app: Open the app and begin the setup process. Select “Activation code” as the authentication method and then select “I would like to order the activation code and temporary PIN”.  
2) Order by phone: Call Nordea Customer Service, tel. 0200 70 000Opens new window (local rates apply), select the option for the Nordea ID app as the reason for your call and follow the instructions.

I’m a corporate customer. How do I activate the Nordea ID app?You can find instructions for activating the Nordea ID app hereOpen in a new window.
How do I order the activation code?You can order the activation code and temporary PIN in the Nordea ID app: Open the app and begin the setup process. Select “Activation code” as the authentication method and then select “I would like to order the activation code and temporary PIN”.  
You can also order the activation code and temporary PIN by calling Nordea Customer Service, tel. 0200 70 000Opens new window (local rates apply). Select “Nordea ID app” as the reason for your call and follow the instructions.
How do I add a new user profile to my Nordea ID app?Here’s how you can add a new user profile to your Nordea ID app:Open the Nordea ID app.Select “Users” on the home page.Select “Add new user”.Follow the steps in the app to add a new user profile. 
How do I log in to Netbank with the Nordea ID app?You can use the QR code to log in:
Select “Nordea ID app QR code” as the identification method on the login page. Open your Nordea ID app and tap “Scan QR code”. Point the camera view on your Nordea ID app at the QR code on your computer screen. Finally, enter your PIN or use biometric authentication (face or fingerprint recognition). If it’s not possible to log in with a QR code, you can also select “Nordea ID” as the identification method on the login page and enter your user ID. Then open your Nordea ID app and enter your PIN or use biometric authentication (face or fingerprint recognition).
Alternatively, you can log in with your user ID: 
In this case, choose Nordea ID as the identification method, enter your user ID and click OK. Open the Nordea ID app. Check before confirming that the same 4-character login identifier is shown in Nordea ID and on the Netbank login page. Confirm your login in the app.
How do I use the Nordea ID app to log in to Nordea Mobile?Here’s how to log in to Nordea Mobile with the Nordea ID app:Open Nordea Mobile.Select Nordea ID as the identification method.Enter your user ID in the relevant field. If you want to save your user ID in the app, select “Remember me”. This way you won’t have to enter your user ID the next time you log in.Tap “Log in with Nordea ID app” and Nordea ID will open automatically. Confirm that you want to log in by entering your PIN in the Nordea ID app. 
How do I use my Nordea ID app to access third-party services? You can use the Nordea ID app to verify your identity in public online services, such as MyTax and MyKanta. 
Nordea ID app: 
Select Nordea ID app as the identification method.  
Enter your user ID and click OK. 
Open the Nordea ID app on your mobile device. 
Make sure you see the same 4-digit login identifier on the browser page and in your Nordea ID app. 
Confirm the identification request by entering your PIN in the Nordea ID app.  
Don’t forget to log out when you’re done. 
Nordea ID app using a QR code: 
Select Nordea ID app QR code as the identification method. 
Open the Nordea ID app on your mobile device. 
Tap “Scan QR code” in the app. This will switch on the camera for scanning the QR code. 
Focus the camera on the QR code. Make sure the entire code is visible within the camera view in the app. 
Confirm the identification request in the Nordea ID app by entering your PIN or using biometric identification. 
Don’t forget to log out when you’re done. 
Most service providers use an intermediary service, also known as an identity broker. In the app, you will see the name of the identity broker (such as OP Identity Service Broker / OP Tunnistuksen välityspalvelu) instead of the name of the actual service provider (such as Kela). These intermediary services are a form of strong authentication and they are perfectly secure. 
Please note that to sign up for Nordea’s e-identification service for strong authentication you first need to visit us in branch. Call us to book a meeting at your local branch. Remember to bring your passport or identity card with you. 
Why was I redirected to a service called OP Identity Service Broker?Most service providers use an intermediary service, also known as an identity broker. In the app, you will see the name of the identity broker (such as OP Identity Service Broker / OP Tunnistuksen välityspalvelu) instead of the name of the actual service provider (such as Kela). These intermediary services are a form of strong authentication and they are perfectly secure. 

How do I confirm online payments with the Nordea ID app?When shopping online, you may be asked to confirm your payment with your bank’s online access codes. This comes often in the form of an extra step right after you have entered your payment card details on the merchant’s payment page. Here’s how to confirm an online purchase with the Nordea ID app: 
Select Nordea as the identification method.  
Select Nordea ID app as the identification option. 
Enter your user ID if you are a customer of Nordea Bank or your personal identity number if you are a customer of Nordea Finance.  
Open the Nordea ID app on your mobile device. 
Check the recipient and amount shown in the app and enter your PIN to confirm the payment. 
The information you entered will not be transferred to the merchant. The merchant will only receive confirmation that your identity has been verified so that it can approve your payment. If you make payments to online merchants participating in the secure payment programmes Mastercard Identity Check (previously Mastercard SecureCode) or Visa Secure (previously Verified by Visa), both your and the merchant’s identity will be verified at the time of purchase. 

How does the login identifier work?  When you log in to a service, such as our Netbank, you will be shown 4 characters in the login window. Always check that you also see the same 4-character login identifierOpen in a new window in your Nordea ID app. If the characters don’t match, cancel the login.
Which smart device operating systems are compatible with the Nordea ID app?The Nordea ID app works on iPhones and Android phones as well as on iPads and Android tablets.iPhones running iOS 12 or newer 
iPads running iOS 12 or newer Android phones and tablets running version 6 or newer We recommend that you install the app on more than one device. This way you can ensure that you’ll be able to log in to various services even if your primary device is lost or damaged.  To check which version of the app you have, tap the question mark icon in the top right corner. You will see the version number by scrolling to the bottom of the Help page.
Is the Nordea ID app secure?Nordea ID meets the requirements set out by the Finnish Trust Network for means of electronic identification. The Finnish Trust Network is supervised by the National Cyber Security Centre Finland, which is part of the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency Traficom. The app also meets the requirements of strong customer authentication set out by the European Banking Authority (EBA) under the revised Payment Services Directive (PSD2). Read our top security tips for both personal and corporate customers here.

What should I do if my Nordea ID app doesn’t work?If the Nordea ID app displays an error message saying “The Nordea ID app has stopped” or “This service is not available, please try again later”, please do the following: Update the app to the latest version in your app store.
Restart your device.
You can now open the Nordea ID app again and use it for identification. 
If the Nordea ID app displays the error message “Several simultaneous identification/confirmation attempts”,close and reopen the app.Enter the correct PIN and the error should be resolved. 
What should I do if my mobile device is lost or damaged and I can no longer use the Nordea ID app? If you lose a phone or tablet with an activated Nordea ID app and you suspect it might have fallen into the wrong hands, please contact our Customer ServiceOpen in a new window without delay.
 If your mobile device with an activated Nordea ID app breaks, you can download the app on another device and activate it in various ways. If you have online banking codes from another bank or a mobile ID, you can use them to activateOpen in a new window the app immediately. If you don’t have any means of digital identification, you can activate a new Nordea ID app by ordering activation an activation code and a temporary PINOpen in a new window in the app. These will be delivered to you by post. Please note that we recommend that you download and activate the app on more than one device, for example on another phone or tablet. You can add more than one user profile to your app. This way you can ensure that you’ll be able to log in to and verify your identity in various services even if your primary device is lost or broken.
 
How do I unlock the Nordea ID app?If your app has been locked, you won’t be able to unlock it yourself. It will be unlocked automatically after 24 hours. For security reasons, the app is locked after too many unsuccessful identification attempts. 

How can I buy and sell fund units?If you want to buy fund units, go to Nordea Netbank and select ‘Funds’ under ‘Savings and investments’.If you want to sell all or part of your fund units, go to Nordea Netbank and select ‘Savings and investments’. Then select your fund portfolio under your investment accounts. You can find more information on the ‘Market comments & information’ pageOpen in a new window. Do you need help in selecting the right fund? You can book a free meeting for investment advice with us on the right-hand side of the screen or find the right solution for you with our digital investment adviser NoraOpens new window. You can also build your own fund portfolio by using the Portfolio DesignerOpens new window.
I want to start saving into funds each month. How do I start?To start monthly saving into funds, go to Nordea Netbank, select ‘Automated savings’ under ‘Savings and investments’ and then New.
Do you need help in selecting the right fund? You can book a free meeting for investment advice with us on the right-hand side of the screen or find the right solution for you with our digital investment adviser NoraOpens new window. You can also create a fund portfolio of your own with Portfolio DesignerOpens new window.
How can I make changes to my fund savings agreement?If you have an existing fund savings agreement with us, you can edit the monthly savings amount and the transfer date or pause your savings plan by going to “Savings and investments” in Nordea Mobile or Netbank and selecting “Monthly savings”.
Edit your monthly savings
How are the trade date and value of fund orders determined? When will the order show in my account? To see how a fund’s order date and value are determined, check the sections “Subscription” and “Redemption” in the relevant fund’s rules. You can find the rules through Nordea Netbank’s search function under ‘Funds’. Search for the relevant fund, select it and scroll to ‘Details’.In most funds, subscriptions and redemptions work like this:The trade date of orders received before 16.30 Finnish time is the current banking day. The trading value is the net asset value (NAV) per unit calculated by the fund management company after 17.00 on the trade date.If you are making a subscription, an authorisation hold will be placed in your account on the order date after 16.30. The authorisation hold will be released on the payment date when the subscription is actually charged.The payment date is the trade date + 2 banking days.A charged subscription will show in your account on the evening of the payment date, and a paid redemption on the morning of the payment date.Always check the specific rules in the relevant fund’s ‘Rules’ document.
Where can I get more information about the taxation of fund investments?You are liable to pay capital income tax on any capital gains you accrue from selling fund units. Read more about the taxation of investment fundson the Tax Administration’s website at vero.fiTax Guide for Investors compiled by the Finnish Foundation for Share Promotion (available in Finnish)
Which investment fund should I choose?Do you need help in selecting the right fund? You can book a free meeting for investment advice with us on the right-hand side of the screen or find the right solution for you with our digital investment adviser NoraOpens new window. You can also create a fund portfolio of your own with Portfolio DesignerOpens new window.

How do I know when is the right time to sell fund units?Investing requires a long-term approach. That’s why the best way to achieve your investment goals and increase your wealth is to prepare an investment plan. Your investment plan takes into account your financial situation, investment goals, investment experience and knowledge, risk and loss tolerance and other personal circumstances.We recommend that you stick to your investment plan.  You can find your investment plan in the old Netbank under Savings and investments > My savings > Savings and investment plans. See why we recommend that you stick to your investment planOpen in a new windowIf you don’t have an investment plan yet, you can book a free investment advice meetingOpen in a new window with us.
To read more about the current market situation, visit the Market comments & information’ pageOpen in a new window on our website.

Where can I find information about my unit-linked insurance policy?In our Insurance serviceOpens new window you can see all your insurance-based investment and personal insurance policies.
Where can I see the performance of my unit-linked insurance policy?You can see the performance of your investment under “Savings and investments” in Nordea Mobile and Netbank.More detailed information is available in our Insurance serviceOpens new window.
How can I make additional investments in my unit-linked insurance policy?You can make a separate one-off investment by transferring the money from your account. A one-off investment will be invested in the unit-linked insurance policy according to the investment plan valid at the time of transfer. You will find information about making a one-off investment in our Insurance serviceOpens new window.
How can I start monthly saving in my unit-linked insurance policy?You can select the sum, payment frequency, due date and end date in your savings plan. Monthly savings will be invested in the unit-linked insurance policy according to the investment plan valid at the time of transfer. You will find information for making a savings plan in our Insurance serviceOpens new window.
How are the trade date and the value of an additional investment and a withdrawal? When will the order be shown in my account? Orders concerning investment instruments will be executed without undue delay at the value of the investment after the insurance company has taken all the required measures. Orders submitted before 14.00 will mainly be executed at the value of the order date. In exceptional situations, the execution of an order may be delayed or even cancelled due to a data system failure or delays in redemptions by the fund management company. Processing withdrawals takes about three banking days.

How can I make changes to my investments?You can adjust the allocation of your savings and make changes to your investment plan concerning the assets to be invested in our Insurance serviceOpens new window.Please note that you can make changes only after the prices of investments have been updated. This takes about 1–3 banking days.

How do I withdraw insurance savings?You can withdraw your savings in our Insurance serviceOpens new window.
How can I change the beneficiary clause?You can change the beneficiary clause by calling Nordea Customer Service. As the beneficiary clause determines who will receive the life insurance payout, you should pay special attention to the wording of the beneficiary clause. 
How do I start investing in equities?You can start investing in equities by opening an equity savings account or a book-entry account. Read more about differences between an equity savings account and a book-entry accountOpen in a new window.To open an equity savings account, go to the Services tab in Nordea Mobile or Netbank and select “Savings and investments”. Then select “Equity savings account”. 
To open a book-entry account, go to Nordea InvestorOpens new window.
After opening the service, you can trade in equities through Nordea Mobile and Netbank, as well as in Nordea InvestorOpens new window.In Nordea’s online services, you can trade in more than 2,500 different stocks and 20 marketplaces across Europe and North America. We’ve also made it easy for you to track your investments and the markets.Read more about our trading servicesOpen in a new window.
Where do I find missing acquisition prices for equities and how do I add them?You may find that the acquisition price for an equity is missing if the equity has been subject to a corporate action or it has been transferred to a book-entry account as a gift or inheritance, for example. The acquisition prices will also be missing if the entire book-entry account, including the equities, has been transferred from Nordea to another bank or vice versa.It is your responsibility as the customer to find out the missing acquisition price. Companies often have information about corporate actions on their respective websites. For more information about tax decisions, please visit the Finnish Tax Administration’s website at www.vero.fi.You can see all transactions executed on Nordea’s trading platform in Nordea InvestorOpens new window under My Portfolio > Transactions or in Netbank under Savings and investments > Activities > Transactions. Select a time period and book-entry account to search for transactions.Before transferring equities to Nordea from another bank, it’s important that you find out the acquisition price for these equities from the other bank, as the equities will arrive in your book-entry account with Nordea as one acquisition lot without an acquisition price. You can enter the missing acquisition price for the acquisition lot yourself (the average of the acquisition prices for the equities to be transferred). You can edit missing or incorrect acquisition prices for equities in Nordea Investor or on the Savings and investments tab in the old Netbank. In the old Netbank, you can edit acquisition prices by selecting My savings, then the book-entry account you want from the dropdown menu. Now click on the equity’s change in value in euros. You will find an Edit button at the right edge of the page beside every acquisition lot. In Nordea Investor, you can edit acquisition prices by selecting My Portfolio, then the equity’s percentage profit/loss. You will find an Modify button on the transaction row. Please note that Nordea assumes no responsibility for the acquisition prices edited or added by its customers. The edited prices will not be forwarded to the Tax Administration or included in Nordea’s documents. 
How do I open or close a book-entry account?You can open a book-entry account easily in Nordea InvestorOpens new window.After opening the service, you can trade in equities through Nordea Mobile and Netbank, as well as in Nordea InvestorOpens new window.
In Nordea’s online services, you can trade in more than 2,500 different stocks and 20 marketplaces across Europe and North America. We’ve also made it easy for you to monitor your assets and the markets. Read more about our trading servicesOpen in a new windowYou can close a book-entry account by calling Nordea Customer Service.Open in a new window 
How do I open an equity savings account?You can open an equity savings account easily in Nordea Mobile or Netbank. Go to the Services tab and select “Savings and investments”. Then select “Equity savings account” and “Open equity savings account”. Please note that you are allowed to have only one equity savings account at a time. This means that you are allowed to open an equity savings account with only one bank.
Open equity savings account

How do I transfer a book-entry account or equity savings account to Nordea?To transfer a book-entry account or equity savings account to Nordea, please call our Customer Service 0200 70 000 (local rates apply)Opens new window
Where can I see the number of my book-entry account?You can find the number of your book-entry account on the Savings and investments tab in Netbank, under Investment accounts.In Nordea’s services, the book-entry account number is shown as a string of 14 or 15 digits. If you need the official 35-character long account number, you can find it by selecting your book-entry account and copying the account number under the account details.However, if you have to provide the official number somewhere, you have to convert it to 19 digits first. You can do this by adding the required number of zeroes after “02 2000” shown at the beginning of the number. After this, you should add the identifier for the central securities depository, which is APKE, and 12 zeroes in front of the 19-digit number to create the official 35-character long account number.Example of how to convert a book-entry account number:Nordea book-entry account number: 02 2000 (00000) 123 45678New number: APKE 000 000 000 000 02 2000 00000 123 45678
How do I transfer money to or from my equity savings account?You can transfer money to your equity savings account only in Nordea Investor. When you have logged in to Nordea Investor, you can transfer money to your equity savings account under the “My Portfolio” page.When using Nordea Investor on a mobile device, select ‘My Portfolio’ from the menu. To transfer money, select your equity savings account.Log in to Nordea InvestorOpens new window
How do I add missing acquisition prices for equities?You can edit missing or incorrect acquisition prices for equities in the old Netbank on the Savings and investments tab. You can edit acquisition prices by selecting My savings, then the book-entry account you want from the dropdown menu. Now click on the equity’s change in value in euros. You will find an Edit button at the right edge of the page beside every acquisition lot.

How can I place a request to add an equity to your selection?If you are interested in a security that you cannot currently trade in through Nordea, you can ask for it to be added to our selection by sending a message to us through Nordea OmapostiOpen in a new window. Remember to add the name and ISIN code of the security to your message so that we can identify it. If it is possible for us to add the security to our selection, we will usually do so within two banking days after we have processed your request.

What equities should I invest in?Investing in equities in general and making informed stock picks requires you to follow the markets closely and read the companies’ financial statements.If you invest in equities, the first thing you will have to do is choose which company’s shares you want to buy. When picking the shares in which to invest, you should carefully consider your investment options. Examples of potential investment criteria include a strong dividend history, good growth plans and promising growth potential, skilled management, the impact of megatrends on the business, and the company’s key figures. But there are also many other factors that may come into play when picking which shares to buy. If investing in equities feels cumbersome and time-consuming, we will be happy to help you find the right investments. In order to do this, we recommend that you prepare an investment plan. The aim of this plan is to find the best way for you to reach your investment goals and enable you to grow your wealth over the long term. You can book an appointment for a free-of-charge investment advice meeting from the bottom right corner of this page.
Where can I find more information on the market situation? You can find more information on the Market comments & information pageOpen in a new window.

What should I do if the market situation changes?Investing requires a long-term approach. That’s why the best way to achieve your investment goals and increase your wealth is by preparing an investment plan. Your investment plan takes into account your financial situation, investment goals, investment experience and knowledge, your risk and loss tolerance and other personal circumstances. We recommend that you stick to your investment plan, regardless of the market situation. See here whyOpen in a new window. You can find your investment plan in the old Netbank under Savings and investments > My savings > Saving and investment plans. If you don’t have an investment plan yet, you can book an appointment for a free investment advice meeting from the right edge of this page.

What is investment advice? When do you need investment advice?Investing requires a long-term approach and therefore the best way to reach your investment target and to increase your wealth is to prepare an investment plan. Your investment plan takes into account your financial situation, investment goals, investment experience and knowledge, risk and loss tolerance and other personal circumstances. Once we’ve understood your situation and needs, we’ll prepare a personalised investment plan for you. You are not obliged to make any investments according to the plan. Whether you want to start saving or invest your wealth, we are here for you! You can book a free meeting for investment advice with us on the right-hand side of the screen or find the right solution for you with our digital investment adviser NoraOpens new window.
How can I get investment advice?You can book a free meeting for investment advice with us or find the right solution for you with our digital investment adviser NoraOpens new window. You can also build your own fund portfolio by using our with Portfolio Designer toolOpens new window.
How much does investment advice cost?We want to help Finnish people build their wealth and therefore offer investment advice free of charge. You are not obliged to make any investments according to the investment plan. You can book a meeting for investment advice with us on the right-hand side of the screen or find the right solution for you with our digital investment adviser NoraOpens new window.
When is the right time to start saving?Saving helps you make your dreams come true and builds financial security. The effects of compound interest will benefit you more and more as the years go by. The sooner you make a savings plan and start saving, the faster you will reach your goals. By saving each month over a longer period of time, you can benefit from times when the markets are falling and are able to buy more units in a fund with your monthly contribution.
Do you need help in selecting the right fund? You can book a free meeting for investment advice with us on the right-hand side of the screen or find the right solution for you with our digital investment adviser NoraOpens new window. You can also build your own fund portfolio by using the Portfolio DesignerOpens new window.
How do I start saving?You can choose the solution best suited to your needs from Nordea’s wide range of savings and investment options. If you are wondering where to invest, read about your options and investment alternatives hereOpen in a new window. 
Do you need help in selecting the right fund? You can book a free meeting for investment advice with us on the right-hand side of the screen or find the right solution for you with our digital investment adviser NoraOpens new window. You can also build your own fund portfolio by using the Portfolio DesignerOpens new window.
How do I start saving for my child?You can get started easily! See how it worksOpen in a new window.

How do I start investing in equities?You can start investing in equities by opening an equity savings account or a book-entry account. Read more about differences between an equity savings account and a book-entry accountOpen in a new window.To open an equity savings account, go to the Services tab in Nordea Mobile or Netbank and select “Savings and investments”. Then select “Equity savings account”. 
To open a book-entry account, go to Nordea InvestorOpens new window.
After opening the service, you can trade in equities through Nordea Mobile and Netbank, as well as in Nordea InvestorOpens new window.In Nordea’s online services, you can trade in more than 2,500 different stocks and 20 marketplaces across Europe and North America. We’ve also made it easy for you to track your investments and the markets.Read more about our trading servicesOpen in a new window.
How do I open a Current account?The easiest way to open a Current account and order a card linked to it is to do it in Nordea Mobile or Netbank. To open an account, go to Services > Accounts and payments. 
Open a Current account
If you need to open an account for a minor, please use our online service for opening banking services for a childOpen in a new window.
How do I close my Current account?To close your account, please contact us via chat or call our Customer Service 0200 70 000Opens new window (local rates apply). You can identify yourself in the chat also with other banks’ online banking codes.
Where can I find my PerkAccount statements?Digital account statements covering PerkAccount transactions registered in February 2020 or later are available in Netbank and Nordea Mobile under Profile > Documents > Archive.
Older digital statements created before February 2020 are available in Netbank under Profile > Documents > Old Netbank documents.
How do I make additional deposits to my FlexiDeposit account or withdraw money from the account?In Nordea Mobile or Netbank, you can make additional deposits or withdraw money by opening the details of your FlexiDeposit account. Above the transaction list you can see the Deposit and Withdrawal buttons.

How do I delete a recurring payment? You can delete a recurring payment in Nordea Mobile or Netbank.
In Nordea Mobile, go to Payments and e-invoices > Upcoming > select the payment you want to delete and tap ‘Delete’. In Nordea Netbank, go to Payments > Outgoing payments > click on the three dots next to the payment you want to delete and select ‘Delete’.Delete recurring payment
How do I cancel an e-invoice?To cancel an e-invoice subscription, you will need to select the invoicer from your list of e-invoice subscriptions.
In Nordea Mobile, go to Payments and e-invoices > E-invoices > select the e-invoice subscription you want to cancel from the list and tap the trash can icon (Cancel e-invoice). In Nordea Netbank, go to Payments > E-invoices > select the e-invoice subscription you want to cancel from the list and click on the trash can icon next to it.Cancel e-invoice 

How do I make a international payment?To make an international payment, select ‘Currency payment’ at the top of the screen in Nordea Mobile. In Nordea Netbank, go to Payments > Currency payment. 
Make currency payment
How and from where can I order foreign currency?As our personal customer, you can order foreign currency easily in FOREX Bank’s service. You will find a link to the service on the right-hand side of Nordea Netbank’s Overview page under Other services.

What devices are compatible with Nordea Mobile?Nordea Mobile works on Android devices running version 7.0 or higher and on iOS devices running version 12 or higher. Your device needs to be running iOS 15 or higher for you to get the latest Nordea Mobile updates.
How do I start using Nordea Mobile?	Download the latest version of the Nordea Mobile app from your app store. You will also need the Nordea ID app or a code calculator to log in to the Nordea Mobile app.

What features does Nordea Mobile have?Nordea Mobile is an application that you can download on your smart device and use to handle your daily banking. The Overview tab gives you an overview of your finances at a glance. On the same tab, you can also access payments, e-invoices and accounts, manage your payment cards and view your savings and investments, loans and consumer credit, and insurance policies. You can edit the view on the tab and add the quick links you need. The Insights tab gives you a more detailed breakdown of your income and expenses. You can also create budgets for yourself. On the Services tab, you can view our offering and sign up for new banking services.  On the Help page, you can book online meetings and chat with us or call us with your identity already verified. You can also give feedback to our development team.The Profile tab is where you can find your contact details and documents and manage the app’s settings. To log in to Nordea Mobile, you will need either the Nordea ID app or code calculator.
Can I select the language I want to use?Yes. Netbank is available in Finnish, Swedish and English. You can change the language in the top right corner of the login screen before you log in. Your language selection will remain the same until you change it again.

Can I switch between my personal and my corporate accounts?Yes. You can change the view from your personal accounts to your corporate accounts by clicking your name in the top right corner. You can see all the accounts you have access to.
How can I give feedback on Netbank?You can give feedback when you are logged in to Netbank by clicking the Feedback button on the right-hand side of every screen.

Can I copy an invoice in Netbank?Yes, you can. You can see the icon for copying an invoice at the end of the row in account transactions.

How can I edit the name of my account in Netbank?Go to the Finances tab, then select Accounts & transactions. Select the account you want to rename, then click on Show account details and Edit the account name.  Remember to save the changes you make.
How can I make a payment that has been rejected in Netbank?You can’t edit or delete a rejected payment in Netbank. Instead, you must create a new payment.
I can’t log in to Netbank. What should I do?Open the Nordea ID app and make sure that it is available. If the Nordea ID app displays the error message “Several simultaneous identification/confirmation attempts”, close and reopen the Nordea ID app, then enter your PIN. The error should be resolved. Also check that you are using the latest version of the Nordea ID app.  Then empty the cache of your browser and clear your browsing history. Try to restart your device. Wait for a moment and try to log in again. We will inform our customers of any planned service breaks in advance in Nordea Mobile and Nordea Netbank, on our website and on social media.

How many payment recipients can I save in my recipients list?You can add as many recipients as you want to your list – there is no upper limit.
Where can I sign an agreement?You can sign agreements in Netbank by clicking on your name in the top right corner, then navigating to Documents > Sign agreements and documents.
Sign an agreement
Can I attach documents to the messages I send to my adviser?Yes, you can. When writing a new message, click Add attachment. You can attach up to 7 files to one message.
Add attachment
Can I make a foreign currency payment in the Netbank?You can make foreign currency payments in the new Netbank.
How do I send messages to Nordea?You can get an answer to many of your questions without having to send us a message and wait for a reply. Go to Netbank, and under the Help menu, click ‘Write to us’ to be able to chat with our chatbot Nova. Ask Nova about what you need to know and it will either offer you a solution right away or redirect you to the right channel. You can also find the message and chat history and the ‘Send document’ function on the Help page in Nordea Mobile and Netbank.
Can I export my account transactions in Netbank to an Excel file, for example?Yes, you can. The export button (“CSV”) is located beside the Print button on the Transactions & details page of the account you selected.
Can I search for account transactions in Netbank?You can search for account transactions using, for example, the recipient, amount or date from any of your accounts in Netbank. You can do this under Finances > Accounts and transactions.

